Allu Meghana Chowdary
801391589
Hands-on #4: MapReduce : Movie Script Analysis

# Project Overview
This project implements a MapReduce job to analyze a movie script dataset. The objective is to process the script, count word occurrences, and identify key patterns in the dialogue using Hadoop MapReduce. The dataset consists of raw text from movie scripts, which the Mapper processes by tokenizing words, and the Reducer aggregates the word counts.

# Approach and Implementation
Mapper Logic: Reads each line from the input movie script, Tokenizes the line into individual words, Emits each word as a key with a count of 1 as the value.
Reducer Logic: Takes the word, count pairs generated by the Mapper, Aggregates the counts for each word, Emits the final word count to the output file.

# Execution Steps
1. docker compose up -d
2. mvn install
3. mv target/*.jar input/shared-folder/code/
4. docker cp input/shared-folder/code/hands-on2-movie-script-analysis-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar resourcemanager:/opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/
5. docker cp input/movie_dialogues.txt resourcemanager:/opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/
6. docker exec -it resourcemanager /bin/bash 
7. cd /opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/
8. hadoop fs -put ./movie_dialogues.txt /input/dataset
9. hadoop jar /opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/hands-on2-movie-script-analysis-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar com.movie.script.analysis.MovieScriptAnalysis /input/dataset/movie_dialogues.txt /output
10. hadoop fs -cat /output/task1/part-r-00000
hadoop fs -cat /output/task2/part-r-00000
hadoop fs -cat /output/task3/part-r-00000
11. docker cp resourcemanager:/opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/output/ input/shared-folder/output/

# Challenges Faced & Solutions 
Optimized the combiner function to reduce shuffle time.
# Sample Input and Output
Input:
HARRY: It's magic! We must go now.  
RON: Blimey! This is crazy.  
HARRY: Trust me, Ron.  
Output: 
Most Frequently Spoken Words by Characters
we 1  
must 1  
go 1  
now 1  
this 1  
is 1  
crazy 1  
trust 1  
me 1  
ron 1  
Total Dialogue Length per Character
HARRY 37  
RON 24  
Unique Words Used by Each Character
HARRY [it's, magic, we, must, go, now, trust, me, ron]  
RON [blimey, this, is, crazy]  
Hadoop Counter Output
Total Lines Processed: 3  
Total Words Processed: 12  
Total Characters Processed: 61  
Total Unique Words Identified: 10  
Number of Characters Speaking: 2  
